
The epidemiology of Staphylococcus aureus skin and soft tissue infection in the southern Barkly region of Australia's Northern Territory in 2017
The aim of this study was to describe the burden and organism antibiotic resistance patterns of skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI) due to Staphylococcus aureus presenting in a remote Australian Northern Territory community in the Barkly region. We collated reported antibiograms of all skin and superficial soft tissue swab specimens obtained from the town's Indigenous medical clinic from 12 of the 13 months between November 2016 and December 2017. Clinician's notes for the consultation associated with each test request were examined to determine the nature of the clinical problem and to access other relevant data. Amongst 309 tissue swab specimens, S. aureus was cultured in 215 (70%), of which 202 isolations were from Indigenous Australians. Of the 215 S. aureus, 98 [46%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 31–52] were methicillin resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and 117 (54%, 95% CI 48–61) sensitive (MSSA). Significant numbers were also resistant to other frequently used oral antibiotics, with resistance to erythromycin in 52 (24%), clindamycin in 51 (24%), trimethoprim in 22 (10%) and fusidic acid in eight (4%). In the Barkly region of Australia's NT in 2017, community-acquired staphylococcal SSTI needing professional care is equally likely to be caused by MRSA as by MSSA. methicillin resistance;  S. aureus;  Skin and soft tissue infections;  Staphylococcus aureus;  treatment protocols
: cefalexin; ciprofloxacin; clindamycin; cotrimoxazole; erythromycin; flucloxacillin; fusidic acid; penicillin derivative; rifampicin; trimethoprim; vancomycin, adolescent; adult; aged; antibiotic resistance; antibiotic sensitivity; Article; bacterium culture; bacterium isolation; child; consultation; female; groups by age; human; Indigenous Australian; infant; major clinical study; male; methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus; methicillin susceptible Staphylococcus aureus; newborn; Northern Territory; prevalence; priority journal; smear; soft tissue infection; staphylococcal skin infection; Staphylococcus infection; tissue swab

Burden of skin disease in two remote primary healthcare centres in northern and central Australia
The burden of skin infections across all age groups in remote Australian Indigenous communities is currently unknown. In a retrospective audit of 439 residents from two remote communities presenting to health clinics, skin conditions were the most common reason for presentation (1603/7392, 22%) and 330/439 (75%) residents presented at least once with a skin infection. Skin infections are an under-appreciated and dominant reason for presentation to primary healthcare centres in these indigenous communities and public health campaigns to address this should incorporate all age groups. 
: dermatology;  indigenous health;  primary care;  skin infection
: adolescent; adult; Article; attitude to health; Australia; child; clinical audit; disease burden; electronic health record; female; gender; groups by age; health center; human; incidence; indigenous health care; major clinical study; male; priority journal; resident; retrospective study; skin disease; skin infection

Scabies and risk of skin sores in remote Australian Aboriginal communities: A self-controlled case series study
. 
Skin sores caused by Group A streptococcus (GAS) infection are a major public health problem in remote Aboriginal communities. Skin sores are often associated with scabies, which is evident in scabies intervention programs where a significant reduction of skin sores is seen after focusing solely on scabies control. Our study quantifies the strength of association between skin sores and scabies among Aboriginal children from the East Arnhem region in the Northern Territory. Methods and results: Pre-existing datasets from three published studies, which were conducted as part of the East Arnhem Healthy Skin Project (EAHSP), were analysed. Aboriginal children were followed from birth up to 4.5 years of age. Self-controlled case series design was used to determine the risks, within individuals, of developing skin sores when infected with scabies versus when there was no scabies infection. Participants were 11.9 times more likely to develop skin sores when infected with scabies compared with times when no scabies infection was evident (Incidence Rate Ratio (IRR) 11.9; 95% CI 10.3–13.7; p<0.001), and this was similar across the five Aboriginal communities. Children had lower risk of developing skin sores at age ?1 year compared to at age >1 year (IRR 0.8; 95% CI 0.7–0.9). Conclusion: The association between scabies and skin sores is highly significant and indicates a causal relationship. The public health importance of scabies in northern Australia is underappreciated and a concerted approach is required to recognise and eliminate scabies as an important precursor of skin sores. 
Australian Aborigine; child; cohort analysis; controlled study; disease association; exposure; female; follow up; human; impetigo; incidence; infection risk; major clinical study; male; preschool child; prevalence; retrospective study; risk factor; scabies; skin sore; Staphylococcus aureus; Streptococcus infection; animal; case control study; complication; impetigo; infant; microbiology; Northern Territory; pathology; physiology; Sarcoptes scabiei; scabies; skin; Streptococcus; Streptococcus infection, Animals; Case-Control Studies; Child, Preschool; Cohort Studies; Female; Humans; Impetigo; Infant; Male; Northern Territory; Sarcoptes scabiei; Scabies; Skin; Streptococcal Infections; Streptococcus

Calculation of the age of the first infection for skin sores and scabies in five remote communities in northern Australia
Prevalence of skin sores and scabies in remote Australian Aboriginal communities remains unacceptably high, with Group A Streptococcus (GAS) the dominant pathogen. We aim to better understand the drivers of GAS transmission using mathematical models. To estimate the force of infection, we quantified the age of first skin sores and scabies infection by pooling historical data from three studies conducted across five remote Aboriginal communities for children born between 2001 and 2005. We estimated the age of the first infection using the Kaplan-Meier estimator; parametric exponential mixture model; and Cox proportional hazards. For skin sores, the mean age of the first infection was approximately 10 months and the median was 7 months, with some heterogeneity in median observed by the community. For scabies, the mean age of the first infection was approximately 9 months and the median was 8 months, with significant heterogeneity by the community and an enhanced risk for children born between October and December. The young age of the first infection with skin sores and scabies reflects the high disease burden in these communities.: aboriginal health;  age of first infection;  northern territory;  scabies;  Skin Sores
: adolescent; Article; Australia; Australian Aborigine; bacterial transmission; child; disease burden; disease course; disease severity; female; high risk infant; human; live birth; major clinical study; male; mathematical model; medical history; onset age; scabies; school child; skin infection; skin leishmaniasis; Streptococcus group A; age; biological model; cost of illness; epidemiology; ethnology; follow up; infant; Kaplan Meier method; microbiology; newborn; Northern Territory; Oceanic ancestry group; preschool child; prevalence; proportional hazards model; retrospective study; rural health; scabies; skin ulcer; Streptococcus infection; Streptococcus pyogenes; transmission, Age Factors; Child, Preschool; Cost of Illness; Female; Follow-Up Studies; Humans; Infant; Infant, Newborn; Kaplan-Meier Estimate; Male; Models, Biological; Northern Territory; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Prevalence; Proportional Hazards Models; Retrospective Studies; Rural Health; Scabies; Skin Ulcer; Streptococcal Infections; Streptococcus pyogenes

Comparison of incidence, rate and length of all-cause hospital admissions between adults with normoglycaemia, impaired fasting glucose and diabetes: A retrospective cohort study in Geelong, Australia
Objective To determine whether adults with normoglycaemia, impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and diabetes differed according to the incidence, rate, length and primary reasons for hospital admission. Design Retrospective cohort study. Setting Barwon Statistical Division, Geelong, Australia. Participants Cohort included 971 men and 924 women, aged 20+ years, participating in the Geelong Osteoporosis Study. Glycaemic status was assessed at cohort entry using fasting plasma glucose, use of antihyperglycaemic medication and/or self-report. Primary and secondary outcome measures Primary outcome measure was any admission to the major tertiary public hospital in the study region over the follow-up period. Secondary outcome measures were admission rate and length (days). Results Over a median follow-up of 7.4 years (IQR 5.3-9.6), participants with diabetes, compared with those with normoglycaemia, were two times as likely to be hospitalised (OR 2.07, 95% CI 1.42 to 3.02), had a higher admission rate (incidence rate ratio 1.61, 95% CI 1.17 to 2.23) and longer hospital stay (third quartile difference 7.7, 95% CI 1.3 to 14.1 and ninth decile difference 16.2, 95% CI 4.2 to 28.3). IFG group was similar to normoglycaemia for the incidence, rate and length of admission. Cardiovascular disease-related diagnoses were the most common primary reasons for hospitalisation across all glycaemic categories. Conclusions Our results show increased incidence, rate and length of all-cause hospital admission in adults with diabetes as compared with normoglycaemia; however, we did not detect any associations for IFG. Interventions should focus on preventing IFG-to-diabetes progression and reducing cardiovascular risk in IFG and diabetes. 
: diabetes mellitus;  health service usage;  hospitalisation;  impaired fasting glucose
: antidiabetic agent; glucose, adult; age; aged; alcohol consumption; all cause mortality; angina pectoris; Article; body mass; cardiovascular risk; cohort analysis; comparative study; controlled study; diabetes mellitus; female; follow up; glucose blood level; heart failure; hospital admission; hospital mortality; human; incidence; length of stay; longitudinal study; major clinical study; male; non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; public hospital; retrospective study; self report; social status; sore throat; tertiary care center; thorax pain; analysis; Australia; blood; hospitalization; impaired glucose tolerance; incidence; middle aged; non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; risk factor; statistical model; statistics and numerical data; very elderly; young adult, Adult; Aged; Aged, 80 and over; Australia; Blood Glucose; Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2; Female; Hospitalization; Humans; Hypoglycemic Agents; Incidence; Logistic Models; Male; Middle Aged; Prediabetic State; Retrospective Studies; Risk Factors; Young Adult

Parent-reported prevalence and persistence of 19 common child health conditions
To estimate prevalence and persistence of 19 common paediatric conditions from infancy to 14-15 years. Design: Population-based prospective cohort study. Setting: Australia. Participants: Parallel cohorts assessed biennially from 2004 to 2014 from ages 0-1 and 4-5 years to 10-11 and 14-15 years, respectively, in the Longitudinal Study of Australian Children. Main outcome measures: 19 health conditions: 17 parent-reported, 2 (overweight/obesity, obesity) directly assessed. Two general measures: health status, special health care needs. Analysis: (1) prevalence estimated in 2-year age-bands and (2) persistence rates calculated at each subsequent time point for each condition among affected children. Results: 10 090 children participated in Wave 1 and 6717 in all waves. From age 2, more than 60% of children were experiencing at least one health condition at any age. Distinct prevalence patterns by age-bands comprised eight conditions that steadily rose (overweight/obesity, obesity, injury, anxiety/depression, frequent headaches, abdominal pain, autism spectrum disorder, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder). Six conditions fell with age (eczema, sleep problems, day-wetting, soiling, constipation, recurrent tonsillitis), three remained stable (asthma, diabetes, epilepsy) and two peaked in mid-childhood (dental decay, recurrent ear infections). Conditions were more likely to persist if present for 2 years; persistence was especially high for obesity beyond 6-7 (91.3%-95.1% persisting at 14-15). Conclusions: Beyond infancy, most Australian children are experiencing at least one ongoing health condition at any given time. This study's age-specific estimates of prevalence and persistence should assist families and clinicians to plan care. Conditions showing little resolution (obesity, asthma, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder) require long-term planning and management. © 2018 BMJ Publishing Group. All rights reserved.
: abdominal pain; anxiety; Article; asthma; attention deficit disorder; Australia; autism; body mass; child; child health; cohort analysis; constipation; dental caries; diabetes mellitus; diurnal enuresis; ear infection; eczema; epilepsy; female; general aspects of disease; headache; health care need; human; infant; injury; longitudinal study; major clinical study; male; obesity; parent; preschool child; prevalence; priority journal; prospective study; recurrent infection; school child; sleep disorder; tonsillitis

Community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections in Aboriginal children attending hospital emergency departments in a regional area of New South Wales, Australia: a seven-year descriptive study

Community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) can cause bacterial skin infections that are common problems for Aboriginal children in New South Wales (NSW). MRSA is not notifiable in NSW and surveillance data describing incidence and prevalence are not routinely collected. The study aims to describe the epidemiology of CA-MRSA in Aboriginal children in the Hunter New England Local Health District (HNELHD).
Methods: We linked data from Pathology North Laboratory Management System (AUSLAB) and the HNELHD patient administration system from 33 hospital emergency departments. Data from 2008-2014 for CA-MRSA isolates were extracted. Demographic characteristics included age, gender, Aboriginality, rurality and seasonality.
Results: Of the 1222 individuals in this study, 408 (33.4%) were Aboriginal people. Aboriginal people were younger with 45.8% aged less than 10 years compared to 25.9% of non-Aboriginal people. Most isolates came from Aboriginal people who attended the regional Tamworth Hospital (193/511 isolates from 149 people). A larger proportion of Aboriginal people, compared to non-Aboriginal people, resided in outer regional (64.9% vs 37.2%) or remote/very remote areas (2.5% vs 0.5%). Most infections occurred in summer and early autumn. For Aboriginal patients, there was a downward trend through autumn, continuing through winter and spring.
Discussion: Aboriginal people at HNELHD emergency departments appear to represent a greater proportion of people with skin infections with CA-MRSA than non-Aboriginal people. CA-MRSA is not notifiable in NSW; however, pathology and hospital data are available and can provide valuable indicative data to health districts for planning and policy development.
: adolescent; child; community acquired infection; epidemiology; ethnology; female; hospital emergency service; human; infant; isolation and purification; male; methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus; New South Wales; newborn; Oceanic ancestry group; preschool child; Staphylococcus infection; statistics and numerical data; young adult, Adolescent; Child; Child, Preschool; Community-Acquired Infections; Emergency Service, Hospital; Female; Humans; Infant; Infant, Newborn; Male; Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus; New South Wales; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Staphylococcal Infections; Young Adult

The rise of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus: Now the dominant cause of skin and soft tissue infection in Central Australia
This study aimed to examine the epidemiology and treatment outcomes of community-onset purulent staphylococcal skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI) in Central Australia. We performed a prospective observational study of patients hospitalised with community-onset purulent staphylococcal SSTI (n = 160). Indigenous patients accounted for 78% of cases. Patients were predominantly young adults; however, there were high rates of co-morbid disease. Community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) was the dominant phenotype, accounting for 60% of cases. Hospitalisation during the preceding 6 months, and haemodialysis dependence were significant predictors of CA-MRSA infection on univariate analysis. Clinical presentation and treatment outcomes were found to be comparable for methicillin-susceptible S. aureus (MSSA) and methicillin-resistant cases. All MRSA isolates were characterised as non-multi-resistant, with this term used interchangeably with CA-MRSA in this analysis. We did not find an association between receipt of an active antimicrobial agent within the first 48 h, and progression of infection; need for further surgical debridement; unplanned General Practitioner or hospital re-presentation; or need for further antibiotics. At least one adverse outcome was experienced by 39% of patients. Clindamycin resistance was common, while rates of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole resistance were low. This study suggested the possibility of healthcare-associated transmission of CA-MRSA. This is the first Australian report of CA-MRSA superseding MSSA as the cause of community onset staphylococcal SSTI.: Community epidemics;  Methicillin - S. aureus resistant to (MRSA);  Public health microbiology;  Soft tissue infections;  Staphylococcus aureus
: antibiotic agent; ciprofloxacin; clindamycin; cotrimoxazole; erythromycin; gentamicin; oxacillin; tetracycline; antiinfective agent, adult; antibiotic sensitivity; Article; Australia; bacterium isolate; clinical feature; community acquired infection; comorbidity; debridement; disease exacerbation; female; hemodialysis; hospitalization; human; indigenous people; major clinical study; male; methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus; methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection; nonhuman; observational study; phenotype; prediction; prospective study; soft tissue infection; staphylococcal skin infection; surgical drainage; treatment outcome; young adult; adolescent; Community-Acquired Infections; drug effects; microbial sensitivity test; microbiology; middle aged; Northern Territory; penicillin resistance; physiology; Soft Tissue Infections; Staphylococcal Infections; Staphylococcal Skin Infections, Adolescent; Adult; Anti-Bacterial Agents; Community-Acquired Infections; Female; Humans; Male; Methicillin Resistance; Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus; Microbial Sensitivity Tests; Middle Aged; Northern Territory; Soft Tissue Infections; Staphylococcal Infections; Staphylococcal Skin Infections; Young Adult

Are scabies and impetigo “normalised”? A cross-sectional comparative study of hospitalised children in northern Australia assessing clinical recognition and treatment of skin infections
Complications of scabies and impetigo such as glomerulonephritis and invasive bacterial infection in Australian Aboriginal children remain significant problems and the overall global burden of disease attributable to these skin infections remains high despite the availability of effective treatment. We hypothesised that one factor contributing to this high burden is that skin infection is under-recognised and hence under-treated, in settings where prevalence is high. Methods: We conducted a prospective, cross-sectional study to assess the burden of scabies, impetigo, tinea and pediculosis in children admitted to two regional Australian hospitals from October 2015 to January 2016. A retrospective chart review of patients admitted in November 2014 (mid-point of the prospective data collection in the preceding year) was performed. Prevalence of documented skin infection was compared in the prospective and retrospective population to assess clinician recognition and treatment of skin infections. Results: 158 patients with median age 3.6 years, 74% Aboriginal, were prospectively recruited. 77 patient records were retrospectively reviewed. Scabies (8.2% vs 0.0%, OR N/A, p = 0.006) and impetigo (49.4% vs 19.5%, OR 4.0 (95% confidence interval [CI 2.1–7.7) were more prevalent in the prospective analysis. Skin examination was only documented in 45.5% of cases in the retrospective review. Patients in the prospective analysis were more likely to be prescribed specific treatment for skin infection compared with those in the retrospective review (31.6% vs 5.2%, OR 8.5 (95% CI 2.9–24.4). Conclusions: Scabies and impetigo infections are under-recognised and hence under-treated by clinicians. Improving the recognition and treatment of skin infections by clinicians is a priority to reduce the high burden of skin infection and subsequent sequelae in paediatric populations where scabies and impetigo are endemic. © 2017 Yeoh et al.
: antibiotic agent; antifungal agent; insecticide; scabicide; unclassified drug, antibiotic sensitivity; Article; child; cross-sectional study; disease association; environmental temperature; human; impetigo; infant; major clinical study; methicillin susceptible Staphylococcus aureus; newborn; pathogen load; pediculosis; prevalence; prospective study; risk factor; scabies; seasonal variation; skin examination; Staphylococcus aureus; Streptococcus pyogenes; tinea; adolescent; Australia; comparative study; female; impetigo; Lice Infestations; male; Neglected Diseases; Oceanic ancestry group; preschool child; retrospective study; scabies; tinea, Adolescent; Australia; Child; Child, Preschool; Cross-Sectional Studies; Female; Humans; Impetigo; Infant; Infant, Newborn; Lice Infestations; Male; Neglected Diseases; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Prevalence; Prospective Studies; Retrospective Studies; Scabies; Tinea

The general health of a cohort of aboriginal children (0-7 years) in Sydney
. 
: asthma; child; child health care; childhood disease; community care; ear; follow up; gastrointestinal tract; general health status assessment; general practitioner; human; indigenous health care; indigenous people; newborn; Note; respiratory tract infection; rural population; tonsillitis; treatment response; urban health; wheezing; Australia; child health; epidemiology; ethnology; female; health status; infant; male; Oceanic ancestry group; pediatrics; preschool child; statistics and numerical data, Australia; Child; Child Health; Child, Preschool; Female; Health Status; Humans; Infant; Male; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Pediatrics

The inequitable burden of group a streptococcal diseases in indigenous Australians: We need to fill evidence gaps and make clinical advances to reduce these diseases of disadvantage
. 
: benzathine penicillin; cotrimoxazole; ivermectin; M protein; permethrin; Streptococcus vaccine; antiinfective agent; bacterial vaccine; penicillin derivative, allergic glomerulonephritis; Article; bacterial load; bone infection; chronic kidney disease; disease surveillance; group A streptococcal infection; human; hypertension; impetigo; Indigenous Australian; infection control; infection prevention; morbidity; mortality; phase 2 clinical trial (topic); primary health care; public health service; rheumatic fever; rheumatic heart disease; scabies; scarlet fever; sepsis; streptococcal pharyngitis; Australia; cost of illness; epidemiology; ethnology; health care policy; isolation and purification; legislation and jurisprudence; Oceanic ancestry group; Streptococcal Infections; Streptococcus pyogenes, Anti-Bacterial Agents; Australia; Bacterial Vaccines; Cost of Illness; Health Policy; Humans; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Penicillins; Streptococcal Infections; Streptococcus pyogenes

The Epidemiology of Staphylococcus aureus and Panton-Valentine Leucocidin (pvl) in Central Australia, 2006-2010
Background: The Central Australian Indigenous population has a high incidence of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia (SAB) but little is known about the local molecular epidemiology. Methods: Prospective observational study of bacteremic and nasal colonizing S.aureus isolates between June 2006 to June 2010. All isolates underwent single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping and testing for the presence of the Panton-Valentine Leucocidin (pvl) gene. Results: Invasive isolates (n=97) were predominantly ST93 (26.6%) and pvl positive (54.3%), which was associated with skin and soft tissue infections (OR 4.35, 95% CI 1.16, 16.31). Non-multiresistant MRSA accounted for 31.9% of bacteremic samples and showed a trend to being healthcare associated (OR 2.16, 95% CI 0.86, 5.40). Non-invasive isolates (n=54) were rarely ST93 (1.9%) or pvl positive (7.4%). Conclusions: In Central Australia, ST93 was the dominant S.aureus clone, and was frequently pvl positive and associated with an aggressive clinical phenotype. Whether non-nasal carriage is more important with invasive clones or whether colonization occurs only transiently remains to be elucidated. 
: Panton-Valentine Leucocidin;  ST93;  Staphylococcus aureus
: Panton Valentine leukocidin; bacterial toxin; exotoxin; leukocidin; Panton-Valentine leukocidin, adolescent; adult; aged; Article; bacterial strain; bacterium isolate; child; cohort analysis; controlled study; female; genotype; human; Indigenous Australian; major clinical study; male; methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus; methicillin susceptible Staphylococcus aureus; microbial colonization; molecular epidemiology; mortality; non multiresistant methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus; nonhuman; observational study; phenotype; prospective study; pvl gene; single nucleotide polymorphism; soft tissue infection; Staphylococcus aureus; Australia; bacteremia; genetics; heterozygote; infant; isolation and purification; microbiology; middle aged; molecular epidemiology; nasopharynx; preschool child; Soft Tissue Infections; Staphylococcal Infections; Staphylococcal Skin Infections; Staphylococcus aureus; very elderly; young adult, Adolescent; Adult; Aged; Aged, 80 and over; Australia; Bacteremia; Bacterial Toxins; Carrier State; Child; Child, Preschool; Exotoxins; Female; Genotype; Humans; Infant; Leukocidins; Male; Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus; Middle Aged; Molecular Epidemiology; Nasopharynx; Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide; Prospective Studies; Soft Tissue Infections; Staphylococcal Infections; Staphylococcal Skin Infections; Staphylococcus aureus; Young Adult

General health, otitis media, nasopharyngeal carriage and middle ear microbiology in Northern Territory Aboriginal children vaccinated during consecutive periods of 10-valent or 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines
. 
This study aims to monitor the prevalence of suppurative otitis media in remote Indigenous communities after introduction of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) in October 2011. We previously reported a decline in suppurative OM following replacement of PCV7 by 10-valent pneumococcal Haemophilus influenzae protein D conjugate vaccine (PHiD-CV10) in October 2009. Methods: We continued regular surveillance in remote Indigenous communities between February 2010 and August 2013. This analysis reports the general health, otitis media (OM), nasopharyngeal (NP) carriage and middle ear microbiology in children less than 36 months of age who received a primary course of at least two doses of PHiD-CV10 or PCV13, and not more than one dose of another pneumococcal vaccine. Results: Mean ages of 511 PHiD-CV10- and 140 PCV13-vaccinated children were 19 and 13 months, respectively. Most children received 3-dose non-mixed PCV schedules. At the time of assessment, general health was poor and prevalence of risk factors was high in both groups: overall, around 14% of children had scabies, 20% had impetigo, 59% had runny nose and 39% had cough. Average household size was 8 persons, and 60% of the mothers smoked. Bilaterally normal middle ears were detected in 10% and 7%, respectively. OM with effusion (OME), almost all bilateral, was diagnosed in 52% and 50%, any suppurative OM (acute OM or any tympanic membrane perforation [TMP]) in 37% and 41%, and TMP in 14% and 12%, respectively. Children in the PCV13 group had significantly less NP carriage of combined Streptococcus pneumoniae (Spn) and non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) (62% versus 51%) but significantly more polymicrobial (Spn and NTHi) middle ear cultures (12% versus 43%), and significantly less Staphylococcus aureus-positive middle ears (40% versus 7%). Although NP carriage of pneumococcal serotype 19A was low in the PCV13 group, serotypes 19F and 23F persist. Conclusions: The general health, particularly ear health, of little children in remote Australian Indigenous communities remains in crisis. In particular, transition to PCV13 did not show substantial further improvement in ear health. Possible vaccine-related differences in microbiology, including potential beneficial effects of PHiD-CV10 on NTHi infection, need to be further evaluated in randomised trials. 
: Middle ear microbiology;  Nasopharyngeal carriage;  Non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae;  Otitis media;  Pneumococcal conjugate vaccines;  Streptococcus pneumoniae
: Pneumococcus vaccine; 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine; 13-valent pneumococcal vaccine; bacterial protein; carrier protein; glpQ protein, Haemophilus influenzae; immunoglobulin D; lipoprotein; vaccine, acute otitis media; Article; Australian Aborigine; bacterium carrier; child; coughing; eardrum perforation; family size; female; health status; human; impetigo; infant; male; maternal smoking; nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae; Northern Territory; otitis media; preschool child; prevalence; priority journal; rhinorrhea; scabies; secretory otitis media; Staphylococcus aureus; Streptococcus pneumoniae; suppurative otitis media; acute disease; Australia; ethnology; heterozygote; microbiology; middle ear; nasopharynx; Oceanic ancestry group; otitis media; risk factor, Acute Disease; Australia; Bacterial Proteins; Carrier Proteins; Carrier State; Child; Child, Preschool; Ear, Middle; Female; Humans; Immunoglobulin D; Infant; Lipoproteins; Male; Nasopharynx; Oceanic Ancestry Group; Otitis Media; Pneumococcal Vaccines; Prevalence; Risk Factors; Staphylococcus aureus; Streptococcus pneumoniae; Vaccines, Conjugate

